Specs:
1. Should be obviously cheap to build, so RD low-profile switches are ideal combining a nice low-profile aesthetic while on a budget around 12 bucks for 100pcs. Then some cheap micro-controller but with a BT capability, I am thinking a bout the nrf5240 on Ali, <b>the</b> classic. Ofc will need some battery for that, LiPo 5000mAh?. Keycaps probably the same from Palettka. PCB from JLC as usual and probably plate too. About the case now, I am thinking 3D printed but maybe use some technique to smooth it out so that it looks pretty. Overall I think I am going for a minimalistic look so that I don't have to design around some theme. But I am thinking blacked out theme.
2. Layout- I definitely want a number row and modifier columns on sides, probably one column. Ctrl alt tab esc, stuff like that. I am on a 36 key layout and I am missing it already a little. But ofc I could make a 36 key layout as well.
3. If I decide to make the keyboard wired, it could also include a display, backlight or some other accessories.
4. Id like to include a rotary encoder as-well for audio or some other stuff.
5. Overall I am looking at 5 rows, 3 for the alphabet, 1 top for numbers and special characters, 1 bottom for space and other modifiers. Also 12 columns, 1 additional column on each side for modifiers.
6. The whole build should be centred around sleek and think look while still being a mechanical keyboard and offering the nice feedback from a mechanical switch that you get while typing on them.
7. My biggest issue so far when it comes to designing custom mechanical keyboards have been keycaps. Its very hard for me to manufacture them or even design them at home since 3D printing is not an option at least right now with my limited knowledge of SLA printing. FDM printed keycaps feel and look horrible, really really bad, desperately unsufferable.
8. All keys will be 1u, except for the spacebar, which will be a 2u key since it's intended to be pressed by both thumbs. [this text was edited by ChatGPT]
9. I have decided to go for a wired build. The keyboard being plugged directly in will decrease the latency and also provide stable power for the keyboard so that it can handle all the LEDs for backlight and for under-glow. It also makes it possible to add a display and more features since ill be using a RP Pico daughter-board. I am also more experienced using QMK instead of ZMK. It will also receive a one rotary encoder for audio, or - if I would fancy myself, I might add another one to make it two. That will also allow me to add one more button on the bottom right, so now arrow keys are organized like they should be.
10. Now looking into changing some modifier keys from 1u to 2u and above so that my keycap sets can fit onto it. And also there will be one more button for better arrow look. I decided to not push extremely hard on the low profile, just keeping it in mind incase I decide to ditch the current look and go for something more sleeker and sexier.